# HSRP

- Spanning Tree Protocol provides loop-free redundancy between switches within a LAN.
-  However, it does not provide redundant default gateways for end-user devices within the network if a gateway router fails.
-  First Hop Redundancy Protocols (FHRPs) provide redundant default gateways for end devices with no additional end-user configuration necessary. By using a FHRP, two or more routers can share the same virtual IP address and MAC address and can act as a single virtual router. Hosts on the network are configured with a shared IP address as their default gateway. In this Packet Tracer activity, you will configure Cisco’s Hot Standby Router Protocol (HSRP), which is an FHRP.

You will configure HSRP on routers R1 and R3, which serve as the default gateways for the hosts on LAN 1 and LAN 2. When you configure HSRP, you will create a virtual gateway that uses the same default gateway address for hosts in both LANs. If one gateway router becomes unavailable, the second router will take over using the same default gateway address that was used by the first router. Because the hosts on the LANs are configured with the IP address of the virtual gateway as the default gateway, the hosts will regain connectivity to remote networks after HSRP activates the remaining router.


# configure HSRP 

Configure HSRP on the G0/1 LAN interface of R1.

R1(config)# interface g0/1(this node is connected to pc1 with network 192.168.1.0)
R1(config-if)# standby version 2
R1(config-if)# standby 1 ip 192.168.1.254
R1(config-if)# standby 1 priority 150
R1(config-if)# standby 1 preempt

Router#sh standby 
FastEthernet1/1 - Group 1 (version 2)
  State is Active
    6 state changes, last state change 00:26:09
  Virtual IP address is 192.168.1.254
  Active virtual MAC address is 0000.0C9F.F001
    Local virtual MAC address is 0000.0C9F.F001 (v2 default)
  Hello time 3 sec, hold time 10 sec
    Next hello sent in 2.354 secs
  Preemption enabled
  Active router is local
  Standby router is unknown
  Priority 150 (configured 150)
  Group name is hsrp-Fa1/1-1 (default)

R3(config)# interface g0/1(this node is connected to pc2 with network 192.168.1.0)
R3(config-if)# standby version 2
R3(config-if)# standby 1 ip 192.168.1.254

R1# show standby brief
                     P indicates configured to preempt.
                     |
Interface   Grp  Pri P State   Active          Standby         Virtual IP
Gi0/1       1    150 P Active  local           192.168.1.3     192.168.1.254

Router#sh standby 
FastEthernet1/1 - Group 1 (version 2)
  State is Active
    5 state changes, last state change 01:31:08
  Virtual IP address is 192.168.1.254
  Active virtual MAC address is 0000.0C9F.F001
    Local virtual MAC address is 0000.0C9F.F001 (v2 default)
  Hello time 3 sec, hold time 10 sec
    Next hello sent in 1.308 secs
  Preemption disabled
  Active router is local
  Standby router is unknown
  Priority 100 (default 100)
  Group name is hsrp-Fa1/1-1 (default)



R3# show standby brief
                     P indicates configured to preempt.
                     |
Interface   Grp  Pri P State   Active          Standby         Virtual IP
Gi0/0     1    100   Standby 192.168.1.1     local           192.168.1.254

Switch S1

enable
config t
ip default-gateway 192.168.1.254
end
Switch S3

enable
config t
ip default-gateway 192.168.1.254
end


PC-A and PC-B

Change the default gateway to 192.168.1.254


Note 1 : Specify the HSRP protocol version number. The most recent version is version 2.

Note2  : Standby version 1 only supports IPv4 addressing.

Note 3 : Configure the IP address of the virtual default gateway. 
   - This address must be configured on any hosts that require the services of the default gateway.
   -  It replaces the physical interface address of the router that has been previously configured on the hosts.
   - Multiple instances of HSRP can be configured on a router.
       -  You must specify the HSRP group number to identify the virtual interface between routers in a HSRP group. 
              - M       - This number must be consistent between the routers in the group
              - . The group number for this configuration is 1.

Note 4:Designate the active router for the HSRP group. 
   - It is the router that will be used as the gateway device unless it fails or the path to it becomes inactive or unusable. 
      - Specify the priority for the router interface. 
            - The default value is 100. 
            - A higher value will determine which router is the active router. 
                  - If the priorities of the routers in the HSRP group are the same, then the router with the highest configured IP address will become the active router.

