Bus Topology (early ethernet)
- Connects through a T connector
- 10base5 "thicknet" (500meters distance)
- 10base2 "thinnet" (185meters distance)
- Uses CSMA/CD to avoid Collision
-> CS Carrier Sense checks the wire 
-> MA Multiple Access allows multiple devices to access one wire

10base2
- AKA "Single Collision Domain / Single Broadcast Domain
- Coax cable
- baseband
- 10mbs is the maximum speed
- 2 is the maximum segment length of 185meters
- Base = baseband - single signal in the wire (whereas broadband allows for multiple signal in the wire)
- Ends with a Terminator, because again... single signal. Therefore if it heads back, collision would occur
(ISSUE1) Collision
(ISSUE2) Cable Length, longer the cable, greater the degradation
(ISSUE3) Cable break -> No terminator
(ISSUE4) 10Mbps is for the entire segment, not per device. Because of Collisions, you can only utilize 30-40% of the speed
ex. 10Mbps through 4 devices, 10/4 = 2.5, then *0.3 = 0.75Mbps

10baseT
- Shielded/Unshielded twisted pair
- maximum segment length of 100meters
- Base = baseband

RJ45 Pin Connector
- T568A or T568B 
- TIA EIA 568 defined as structured cabling standards
- EIA stands for Electronics Industry Alliance
- T568A (s.green, green, s.orange, blue, s.blue, orange, s.brown, brown)
- T568B (s.orange, orange, s.green, blue, s.blue, green, s.brown, brown) is most popular 

Straight Through Cables
- When connecting PC to Router/Switch, etc
- Uses Straight Through Cables (pin 1, corresponds to pin 1, pin 2 to pin 2 etc...)
- Ethernet port interface used on NICs, routers and uplink ports

Cross Over Cable
- When connecting 2 PCs or 2 Routers together
- TX transmit
- RX receive
- Pins cross (pin 1 TX+ to pin 3 RX+, pin 2 TX- to pin 6 RX-, pin 3 RX+ to pin 1 TX+, pin 6 RX- to pin 2 TX-)
-> in 10baseT or 100baseT, pin 4 5 7 8 are not used
-> in gigabit, all pins are used

Cable Category
- Cat3: telephone wiring, used to be used for data transfer
- Cat5: frequency up to 100MHz, speeds of 10/100 Mbps supported up to 100meters
- Cat5e: frequency up to 100Mhz, supports 1Gbps (improve Cat5 by reducing noise and interference... most Cat5 meets Cat5e specs, but might not meet certifications therefore, not categorized as Cat5e) up to 100meters
- Cat6: frequency up to 250Mhz, increase pair twists per inch, supports 10Gbps. up to 55meters. Suitable for 10baseT, 100baseTx or fastEthernet or 1000baseTe or Gigabitethernet or 10GbpEthernet
- Cat6a (argumented): frequency up to 500Mhz, supports 10Gbps. up to 100meters.
- Cat7 - frequency up to 600Mhz, supports 10Gbps. up to 100meters ( can be tera Connectors, doesnt have to be RJ45). Foiled every pair - class F
- Cat7a - frequency up to 1000Mhz, supports 100Gbps.
- Cat8 - supports 40Gbps
- Cat8.1 - backward compatible and interoperable with Cat6a
- Cat8.2 - interoperable with Cat7
- DAC Direct Attachment Cable (DAC) - up to 15meters, SFP Small Formfactor Pluggable plug on each end. Supports fiber or copper. up to 10Gbps on SFP+ slot
- Roll Over Cable - special cable used in Cisco environment (connects computer to Console through the computer's serial port - or get USB to DB9 converter) - pin 1to8, 2-7, ... 8to1.